hey this is blade blabber here um I got
knifed review today it's the Ontario
marine Raider Bowie um but first i'm
going to start something everybody i'm
just kind of kind of do like a weapons
check and show you what I carry usually
as far as weapons and every day carry
knives and stuff like that so first I'm
going to show you my defensive knife
choice today and that is the Smith &
Wesson SWAT and I like this not even
though it's a pretty low price knife
it's not extremely high quality I still
like it um I like it just as much as
some knives that benchmade makes and
stuff so I carry this quite a bit I also
have for a non-lethal caring today I'm
carrying a cubit on which I like these a
lot because I mean if there's just a
small incident where someone comes up
and just kind of grabs you and you don't
need to escalate it any more than you
know just getting them off you don't you
don't need to cut them or anything like
that you could just pull one of these
out and get one of their pressure points
and their offer you and just give you
enough time to get away from when it
doesn't need to be escalated anymore so
I like these a lot of care that's almost
all the time then for an EDC today I'm
carrying a Swiss Army knife I carry
these and multi-tools all the time you
never find me without one so that's
pretty much what I came every day now on
to the night um the Ontario marine
Raider and it's a really really cool
knife I like Bowie's an early video in
my Winchester Billy did
you I said I was gonna get a better
Bowie this is it I like this knife a lot
as a survival blade it goes it Hans
through would really nice almost as good
as my kukri blade that i got from depaul
off it not quite as good but almost it's
it's almost there but it's really nice
I'll show you the blade first we'll go
over the specs as you can see it has a
really big front end to it it has a lot
of maps right there and that's what
gives it the really good chopping is
it's really front heavy it's not the
best balance knife in the world as you
can see but it's this it's really front
heavy so it makes it a lot better at
chopping so it kind of has a heavy it
kind of feels heavy like from word in
your hand but it makes up for that and
how that is it chopped in it comes with
a lanyard lanyard hole cross guard
kraton handle 9.7 inch blade it's 15.1
inches overall it has a pretty thick
blade I don't know exactly how thick it
is but it's pretty thick um it feels
pretty nice in your hand this could be
used as a fighting knife too probably
just as good as it would be a survival
knife but it seems like it would be a
little bit too heavy for me I would
rather have something that's a little
bit lighter this little more
maneuverable you know so yeah and the
blade is covered in black epoxy so that
after a while they'll come off I kind of
scrape off in the middle from baton
splitting wood and stuff but I don't
know if you can see this right there on
the blade I don't know if you can see it
but there's a whole bunch of yeah
you can see it a whole bunch of chips
and stuff I've used this knife in the
woods like twice it's already all marked
up just from splitting a couple logs
just testing out it has a whole bunch of
little scratches all over I don't know
it's with that I don't key that in
committing knives so that's not that big
of a deal but just doing that out there
um so as the blade is 1095 carbon steel
so it's a pretty knife knife nice night
they cost me about eighty dollars 80 or
85 dollars you can get it for cheaper
out there how do I get the best deal but
and it comes to raise your sharp you
don't need sharpening at first but 1095
is it pretty good it's a good steel but
you sharpening a little more often it's
not the heart of steel out there so I'm
going to go on to the sheath the sheath
is one thing i don't like about this at
all um first of all the belt loop is
kind of loosely on there on this ring
and it's just kind of weird but does put
they do give you these laces to tie it
around your legs so that makes a lot
better hold on to you the thing i don't
like about this you can most is when you
put the knife in there get a knife in
there it's really hard to get the straps
on going to do a lot you got stretching
a lot like yeah it's just a lot harder
than it could be it can they can make
that a lot easier it holds a nice and
really good it's not going to wiggle
around at all but you know just they
could do that a little better back is
leather in the front is nylon and the
straps a nylon but the belt loop is
leather like I said it has places around
here tie around your
leg hold it on to your waist better then
when you're back there so overall in
this knife it's a pretty nice knife it's
one of the best survival bowie's I've
probably used um it it's pretty much all
waterproof I like this a lot as for our
survival there's just a couple things I
didn't like so I can much recommend this
knife out